SIMPLE Routing
AMRoute 53, public hosted zones. There are two types of DNS zones in Route 53:public and private to start with let's cover off some general facts and then we can talk specifically about public hosted zones. 
A hosted zone is a DNS database for a given section of the global DNS database, specifically for a domain such as animal planet.netRoute, 53 is a globally  Resilient service. These name servers are distributed globally and have the same data set. So whole regions can be affected by outages and Route. 53 will still function. That is why we used it. Having our offices spread over multi-regions made it inevitable 

Hosted zones are created automatically when you register a domain using Route 53, so when I registered animal planet there was no need to register it because it was automatically put as a hosted zone.However you can also create one separately if you want to register a domain elsewhere and use Route 53 to host it. 
I  was charged about $11 which I sent to the accounts department to pay for which is pretty light considering the cost  usually if we were running anything on premise. There's a monthly fee to host each zone and a fee for the queries made against that hosted Zone. 
A Zone where the public or private hosts DNS records examples of these being a records or the IP version 6 equivalent MX records, NS records and tax records. 
Public hosted zones are databases which are referenced via delegation using name server. Route53 public hosted Zone when referenced in this way, is authoritative for a domain such as animal planet.net. So, when you register a domain name server, records for that domain are entered into the top-level domain Zone. And these point at your name servers and then the zone that they host become authoritative for that domain. 
Now, a public hosted zone is a DNS database. 
So a Zone file which is hosted by Route 53 on public name servers, and this means it's accessible from the public internet and within the VPC using the Route 53. 
When you create a public hosted Zone, Route 53, allocates for public name. 
It has, and it's all those things servers that the Zone file is hosted and to integrate it with the public DNS system. You change the name server records for that domain to point at those Route. 53 name servers inside a public hosted Zone. 
You create a resource records, which are the actual items of data, which DLS users, you can, and I'll cover this in an upcoming video. 
You can use Route 53 to host Zone files for Externally registered domains. So, for example, you can use qqGoDaddy to register a domain. You can create the public hosted Zone in Route 53, get the for name servers, which are allocated to that hosted Zone and then via the hover or gold at the interface. You can add those name servers into the DNS system for your domain and I'll cover how this works in detail in a future video. Visually. This is how a public hosted Zone, looks and functions. 
We start by creating a public hosted Zone, and for this example, it's animals for life.org, creating this allocates for Route 53, name servers for this Zone and those name servers are all accessible from the public internet. There are also accessible from AWS VPC is using the Route 53 resolver, which assuming DLS is enabled for. The VPC is directly. Possible from an internal IP address of that VPC inside this hosted Zone, we can create some resource records. In this case, a www record to an extra cords for email and a text record within the VP. See, the access method is direct the VPC resolver, using the VP C plus to address. And this is accessible from any instances inside the V PC, which use 
This is that DNS resolver so they can query The Host. As they can any public DNS Zone using the Route 53 resolver from a public DNS perspective. The architecture is the same in that the same Zone file is used, but the mechanics are slightly different, DNS starts with the DNS root servers, and these are the first servers queried by our users resolve a server. So Bob is using a laptop talking to his ISP DNS, resolver server, which queries the Root servers, the root servers have information on the dot-org top-level domain. And so the ISP resolve a server. Can. Then query the dot-org servers, these servers, host the.org Zone file. And this is old file has an entry for animals for life.org, which has four name servers. And these all point at the Route, 53, public name servers for the public hosted zone for animals for life, this, 
This is called Walking the tree. And this is how any public internet hosts can access the records inside a public hosted Zone using DLS. And that's how public hosted zones work there. Just a Zone file, which has hosted on for nameservers provided by Route 53. This public hosted Zone can be accessed from the public internet or any VPC, which are configured to allow, DNS resolution.
It doesn't  cost much for hosting this public hosted Zone and a tiny charge for any queries made against it, almost nothing in the grand scheme of things, but for larger volume sites, it's something to keep in mind. 
